# Nature-Enrichment-Program-data-repository

This is the completed version of codes for paper: Effects of auditory enrichment program with veterinary functional music on psychophysiological responses in growing pigs, by Juliana Zapata Cardona; Alexandre surget; Yadira Ibarguen; Santiago Duque; Edimer David …

The intensification of pig production can predispose pigs to chronic stress, with adverse effects on the neuroendocrine and immune systems that can lead to health problems, poor welfare and reduced production performance. Consequently, there is interest in developing tools to prevent or eliminate chronic stress. Music is widely used as a therapeutic strategy for stress management in humans and may have similar benefits in non-human animals. Within this framework, this study evaluated the effect of music on psychophysiological responses in pigs as a multidimensional assessment of the effect of an auditory enrichment program with music on chronic stress in this species. For the study, two experimental groups of pigs were selected, each consisting of 20 animals, one enriched and exposed to a program of functional veterinary music designed for pigs, and a control group without musical stimulation. Qualitative Behavior Assessment (QBA) and skin lesions indicative of agonistic behavior were used for psychological evaluation. Physiological assessment included blood counts and daily measurements of cortisol and salivary alpha-amylase. A positive effect of the enrichment program with music on psychophysiological responses was demonstrated, indicating that it can be useful in enriching the environment, as a therapeutic tool to reduce stress, contributing to the welfare and health of pigs under production conditions.
